[AUDIO LOGO]
>> Biohacking, it's not
just about being well,
it's about being more than well.
It's the power to
transform yourself.
Are we ready?
I'm Dave Asprey.
And this is Biohacking.
Hi, I'm Dave Asprey.
And in the process
of losing 100 pounds,
I had to learn more than I
wanted about the role of toxins
in my body and our environment.
And that became a part of the
creation of biohacking itself,
because why would you go to
the trouble of removing toxins
from your body when you're
dumping a bunch more in?
Maybe you could do something
on both sides of that.
And in this episode,
I'll teach you
about the importance of
hacking your environment
so you can minimize the
amount of toxins that come in.
And I'm going to show
you exactly what you
can do to make it
so your body is
better at getting rid of toxins
than mother nature intended.
The reason this
is so important is
that you get more toxins
from your environment
than your ancestors did.
And that means that the
stuff you eat all by itself
probably isn't going to cut it.
First thing you
need to understand,
toxins are everywhere and they
have always been everywhere.
You don't need to
avoid all of them
because your body
works all day long.
It makes toxins in the
process of keeping you alive.
Your gut bacteria
make endotoxins.
And plants make a ton of toxins.
Spoiled meat is toxic.
Volcanoes have toxic gas.
So you don't need to
be afraid of toxins.
But what you want to
understand is which toxins
are likely to be
affecting you the most
and what can you do to turn up
your body's ability to get rid
of those toxins,
things you might
want to consider doing
so you can go through
focused detox
periods so that you
can avoid accelerated aging.
A lot of people
don't like the idea
of detoxing because they
think somehow it isn't real,
or they read something about
maple syrup and grapefruit
or who the heck knows.
That's not what
I'm talking about.
I'm talking about things that
we know accumulate in your body,
we know what they do, we know
what level of parts per million
affect you, we
know how your body
is supposed to secrete
them and we know
why your body isn't doing it.
Since this is real science, this
is the science of biohacking,
you don't have to worry
about the latest fad detox.
This is not a juice cleanse
this is about controlling
the environment around
you and inside of you
so you have control
of your own biology.
Toxins can lower your IQ.
Toxins can make you
die more quickly.
They are a major cause of brain
fog, of emotional volatility,
and they mess with
your hormones.
That crippling energy, times
when you just can't move,
you're so tired, you
want to do something
but when you turn on
button for your body,
you just can't get going,
that's toxins a lot of the time.
And they even damage
your DNA, which
increases your risk of cancer.
And it's a marker for aging.
So maybe you want to avoid
some or get rid of them
if you've already taken them in.
Stop doing the things
that make you weak.
That's oftentimes
easier than doing
things that make you stronger.
So for toxins, avoid the
ones you can easily avoid.
And for the other things, just
upregulate your body's ability
to get rid of it.
One major cause of toxins that
we just don't hear about very
much is toxic mold.
Mold toxins, whether they're
in your food, your coffee,
or more likely in your home
or school or workplace,
they cause DNA damage.
They break down
myelin, that insulating
lining of your nerves that
allows electricity to flow
through your nervous system.
They can directly damage
your brain as they did to me.
And many of them are
known carcinogens.
They can be found
in your environment
and they also can
grow inside your body.
So your sinuses or your GI
tract can have molds or yeast
growing that then creates toxins
that your body continuously
has to deal with.
In my case, I grew up in a
basement that had been flooded
and not remediated properly.
We didn't know that
that was an issue,
but I had all the
symptoms of mold toxicity.
I would get nosebleeds,
sometimes 5 or 10 times a day.
I had strep throat
every month for 15 years
or a sinus infection
some of the time
and took antibiotics for it.
I had behavioral disorders,
OCD, ODD, Asperger's syndrome
and constant rashes, asthma.
And by the time I
was in my late 20s,
I was diagnosed with high risk
of stroke and heart attack.
I had hit 300 pounds.
I still have stretch
marks from that.
I had a nice set of
manboobs, and basically I
was suffering a lot.
It was kind of like
living under a wet blanket
and being angry all
the time and tired.
The thing is about half
of all buildings in the US
have a problem with toxic mold.
I know about all this
because I had to heal myself.
I had to regenerate my brain.
I had to turn off the
xenoestrogen from toxic molds.
This is a type of estrogen
made by a fungus that's
1,000 times stronger
than human estrogen that
was the cause of my low
testosterone in my early 20s.
So one thing you
could do, especially
if something's not
right with your health
and you just feel like
it isn't working right,
or if you can see water
damage on the ceiling,
you can see mold
anywhere in the house.
If it just smells funky, you can
test the environment for mold.
If you have mold
in your house, you
need to do a couple
of different things.
Either move or get it
professionally remediated.
This is something that
I didn't understand
and so I would
keep my possessions
from a moldy house that were
very clearly contaminated.
And if you use the same
pillow and the same mattress
and the same couch
in your new house,
you'll have the same
symptoms as your old house.
So once I learned
how to detox it,
my health is profoundly good.
And learning about
the role of mold,
if you just have chronic
problems, including things that
go by the names of Lyme disease
or EBV or chronic fatigue
syndrome, there is a
common element there
and it is toxic mold
in your environment.
And even worse, some foods
contain mycotoxins, especially
the plant-based foods.
Grains, the worst ones
are corns and wheat.
Nuts, the worst ones are
Brazil nuts and peanuts.
When you eat meat and dairy
from cows that eat corn and soy,
they accumulate the
toxins into their fat.
So if you're getting
non-organic or non-grass fed
meat and dairy, you're
likely getting toxins
accumulated in that food.
Alcohol is almost universally
high in mold toxins,
and so is coffee and chocolate.
One of the problems
we have especially
in the world of coffee is
that China, Japan, and Europe,
and most of South America
have standards on how much
mold toxin is allowed in coffee.
Because coffee is
a fermented product
there's always some mold in it.
But problem is that when coffee
is too moldy to sell in most
of the world, they send it to
the US and then we drink it
and then an hour later we
get cranky and we want sugar
and we want more coffee and
we yell at people around us,
because moldy coffee makes
you feel anxiety in your body.
I quit drinking
coffee for five years
and today, the
coffee that I make
is lab-tested and
specially manufactured
to not have those
levels of mold.
And people say,
this can't be real.
No, it is real.
Why else would governments
around the world
put these standards in place?
For instance, a 2003 study found
that 91.7% of Brazilian coffee
had mold.
I would just tell you,
if things aren't working
in your body, in your
brain, in your life,
you can't lose
weight it is worth
getting yourself tested
for mycotoxins or for mold
or getting your
environment tested using
a swab test and an air test.
Now, when it comes to heavy
metals, arsenic, cadmium, lead,
and mercury are the
most common heavy metals
that are going to
be bothering you
unless you eat a lot of kale.
In which case, you can
add thallium to the list
as well, because kale
accumulates thallium.
These toxic metals are found in
small amounts but small enough
to matter in your drinking water
if you still drink tap water.
If you do, please stop.
You need to get a
high quality water
filter if you want
to live a long time
and have a brain that works.
Amalgam fillings, if you
still have the silver fillings
that for 75 years they swore
was safe despite the evidence
but now most dentists
have stopped using.
Many of the plant-based protein
powders, especially brown rice
protein, pea protein,
they're accumulating
large amounts of toxic metals.
Some supplements and
many forms of seafood.
And I mentioned kale
already but lead
is a problem with those
plant-based proteins
and Brown rice in
particular, whether it's
brown rice protein or
just brown rice itself,
it has 80 times more
arsenic than white rice.
It's one of the reasons you
might switch from brown rice
to white rice, because
white rice and brown rice
are both just a source of carbs.
There's negligible vitamins
in the outside of brown rice.
The fiber doesn't matter
because it's coated in arsenic.
So suddenly you
make some changes
and you eat rice
that tastes better,
and now you have less
arsenic exposure.
I think that might
be a good trade off.
If you're having health
problems or you just
want to know where you are,
you can get a test for metals.
Usually it's a urine test,
but some people do hair tests.
If you can interpret that
properly, it'll work as well.
One of the things that
led me down this path
is that in my 20s when I was
working on losing the weight
and getting my brain back,
I did a heavy metal test
and I had very high levels
of lead and mercury.
And one of the
things I was noticing
was that I did advanced
yoga practices back then.
And one of the harder things
to do is to stand on one leg
and put your other leg
up like a Tree Pose
and then close your eyes
because you just tip over.
Well, what I found is that if I
ate sushi, later that afternoon
if I did yoga, I couldn't
balance very well.
But if I didn't have sushi,
I could balance well.
And that was the subtle
effect of mercury
on my nervous system.
But if I took
something that bound
to the mercury that
was in the sushi, then
I could still balance.
And this is why I know
it makes a difference.
So if you're into
meditation and yoga
on the subtle
energetics of your body,
heavy metals have more
of an effect on you.
And if you're someone who's
electrically sensitive,
sometimes that's
because you have
too much metal in your
body that kind of makes
you act like a big antenna.
So getting rid of those
is really important.
Heavy metals are neurotoxic.
They specifically mess
with your thyroid gland
and with your adrenal function.
They can change your insulin
sensitivity, which basically
means you'll get diabetes.
They can suppress
your immune system.
And this is the
worst of all, they
can inhibit
mitochondrial function.
When your mitochondria
are at full power,
your immune system
works and your brain
works and you can be happy
and you have willpower
and you can go do things
that matter in the world.
Almost all of
biohacking is around
turning your mitochondria up to
their fullest possible energy
because when you do that,
who knows what you might do?
And when you're
running at half power,
we know what you
might do, just enough
to get by because
you're just too tired.
That's where I
was and that's not
where I'm ever going to be
again and I want that for you.
If you still have metal in
your mouth, amalgam fillings,
you need to go to a dentist
and have them removed safely.
This is a
dentist-certified in SMART,
it's called Safe Mercury
Amalgam Removal Technique.
It's a way of making sure you
don't reabsorb the mercury
from your metal fillings.
There's another class of toxins
that I'm more worried about now
than I was 10 years ago because
it's becoming really apparent
what they're doing.
It's called
endocrine disruptors.
Now, toxic mold makes
natural endocrine disruptors
but those go away with
sunlight and they break down.
The man-made
endocrine disruptors
are becoming--
there's everywhere.
Things like household
cleaning products
unless you use a very good
brand that is organic-certified
and also just non-toxic.
Cosmetics, almost all cosmetics
have endocrine disruptors.
So your testosterone,
your estrogen, they
just don't work right.
Lotions and all
the body care stuff
that you would use, synthetic
fragrances, perfumes.
These are a problem because
right now, testosterone
and men and women has dropped
50% in the last 20 years.
What that means
is that you likely
have the same testosterone
levels that your grandparents
would have had 20 years ago.
So if you're walking
around saying,
you know, I just don't
have that much energy.
I want to do stuff but I
don't have the strong desire.
I just can't get up.
Well, testosterone, which is
important for women and men,
it's tied to dopamine, which
is the neurotransmitter
of happiness, basically,
of getting things done,
of motivation.
And testosterone is the
hormone of motivation.
So when you have xenoestrogens
in that little thing you're
hanging in your car to
smell like fabric softener,
that stuff is messing with
your receptors for this.
So your levels drop
and now you don't
have enough
testosterone, which means
you don't have enough dopamine.
So you feel kind of
depressed and blah
and you just can't be
bothered to get up,
get rid of anything
that smells that's not
an actual essential
oil in your house,
and magically you may find
your happiness level goes up
because you don't want to be
marinating in xenoestrogens.
There's also pesticides.
Glyphosate, which is
now something sprayed
on non-organic grains in the
US, so when you eat the grains
you're getting high
levels of this.
They like to tell you that
it doesn't affect people
because it only
affects bacteria.
By now, I think you understand
that your microbiome
and your gut is a major
influencer of your metabolism.
So you're eating wheat that
was sprayed with glyphosate
at the end of the cycle,
right before it was harvested
to make it ripen more quickly.
And then you eat it
and then you have
a major problem in your gut
and you don't feel so good.
And then magically if you go to
Europe and you eat wheat there
and it doesn't bother you,
maybe it's the gluten,
maybe it's the poison
that's legal in the US.
Another form of toxin
that you're exposed to
is antibiotics in
industrial animal products.
I've just got to say
this straight up.
If you are vegan, you should
switch to grass-fed animal
products because it kills less
animals than vegan agriculture.
And if you eat
industrial meat right now
or even worse
industrial fake meat,
you are contributing to
environmental harm but worst
of all, you're getting the
antibiotics and the bad fats
that come in there.
So your job is to figure out how
to demand grass-fed and grass
finished beef whenever
you go to buy beef.
And if you're not at the level
where you can afford that,
eat the leaner cuts
of industrial beef
because they have
less toxins in them.
And let's work on
changing the industry
to grow animals in a way
that supports the soil
and supports the Earth and
supports human flourishing,
rather than eliminating
animals so we can
have industrial food for all.
That won't work.
The other major issue,
especially in the US,
is monosodium glutamate or MSG.
And MSG excites
neurons in your brain.
And when you eat MSG,
which usually isn't labeled
in restaurants or even
in packaged foods,
it goes by secret names
like spice extracts,
organic spice extracts,
paprika extract,
textured vegetable protein, and
the list goes on and on and on.
But what MSG does, it triggers
your brain to start firing
and then it can't stop firing
so you get a sugar craving.
I've run a restaurant in LA for
8 years and I don't do this,
but I know because
I see the pitches.
You can go to the
catalog of things,
all restaurants now buy
from the same company.
It's called Sysco.
And there's these
spice mixes you can get
and it says right
there, "no added MSG,"
but there are 74% MSG by
weight because you don't
have to label it that way.
When you add MSG to
a restaurant meal,
your ticket goes up
by 30% because if I
was to give you
MSG in your food,
you would say this
tastes really good
but then you're going
to order dessert,
because it caused a
blood sugar crash.
So if you know about
MSG, you don't eat MSG,
you have less headaches
and you have more focus.
It's a major toxin
in our food supply.
But maybe not as important
as artificial sweeteners.
New research just came
out about sucralose.
It is terrible for
your gut microbiome
and it causes DNA damage.
But it's still judged to be safe
by the regulatory authorities.
If it's an artificial
sweetener, don't do it.
And I keep saying, maybe it's
even worse, artificial colors.
These are things tied to brain
problems, especially in kids.
If your food has
artificial colorings,
it's not food anymore,
it's an industrial product
and maybe you could
paint something with it
but don't eat it.
There are two more forms
of toxins to be aware of.
One of them is chronic
stress, emotional stress,
and life stress.
And if you're under
endless stress,
you've got to learn
how to handle it better
or to change your environment
so that you have a chance
to recover from the stress.
And the final toxin
is something that we
talk about in another
one of the episodes,
and that is junk light.
If you're underneath
lighting at work
that gives you a
headache every day,
that is a chronic stressor.
So I'm going to classify
LED lighting that makes you
feel unwell as a form of toxin.
Just be aware of that.
Fortunately, there
is a fix for that.
Now, what do you do about this?
I just painted this scary
world picture for you.
All that stuff is
real, it's out there
but you don't need to be afraid,
you just want to be aware.
Your body has three
main systems for detox
and we're going to hack those.
The first one is the
lymphatic system.
And its job is to
remove cellular waste
and it doesn't have its own pump
so you have to move your body.
This is why 20
minutes of walking
every day or similar
movement is so important.
And you can also do lymphatic
drainage massage if you want.
The second system is your liver.
And your liver carries
out detox processes.
We call them phase
1 and phase 2 detox,
and I'm going to teach you how
to hack those in a little bit.
And the third thing
is your kidneys.
They regulate your electrolyte
and your fluid levels.
They filter your blood.
And they send waste
products into urine.
And unfortunately,
in humans, we handle
a lot of toxins in our kidneys
but most animals, like rats,
handle toxins in their liver.
Your liver is better than
your kidneys at most toxins
so humans are more
susceptible to toxins
because of the way we detox
with our kidneys and our liver.
Now, what do you do for
each of these systems?
Well, for your lymphatic
system, light touch massage.
So as a guy, I'm like, yeah,
give me the deep Swedish.
Make it hurt.
That doesn't work.
So it's almost like a feathery
light petting that moves lymph.
And if you get a lymphatic
drainage massage,
it's strangely relaxing.
You can also learn how
to give one to yourself.
There's diagrams online.
If your face is puffy, you can
actually do lymphatic drainage
on your face, and magically
if you hit the right spots,
it goes away.
I talked about walking.
Whole body vibration is
a great hack for that.
So what I do at home is I have
a whole body vibration platform
and I stand on that
every now and then
even between meetings,
because that also
handles the I'm sitting for too
long if I'm working all day.
And I don't have to
necessarily go outside
if it's raining or something.
So whole body vibration works,
so do those little trampoline
things.
Now, a 2012 systematic review
of 50 different studies on lymph
found that sweating helped to
remove lead, cadmium, arsenic,
and mercury.
So you really, really
want to consider
doing an infrared sauna or
any kind of sauna really,
but infrared saunas
remove metals more quickly
than a regular sauna.
But any kind of sauna helps
you live longer and helps
you detox.
The full spectrum infrared that
does near mid and far infrared
is your best for toxin release.
For your liver to do those phase
1 and phase 2 detox things,
you have to have specific
vitamins and minerals.
Now, some people believe, oh
I should get all my vitamins
and minerals from mother nature.
If you believe
that, then you also
should only get your
toxins from mother nature.
So you're going to have to move
somewhere on the planet with no
artificial lighting, no EMFs
including from Starlink--
thanks, Elon--
and no toxins even though
the toxins we've made
are now in every
part of the planet.
So you're living in a cave,
maybe in the Antarctic,
and then you can get all
of your detox molecules
from mother nature
because you only got
your toxins from mother nature.
Since that's not you,
this is why you need
to know what I'm sharing here.
There are the 3Gs of detox.
And if this is all you walk
away from this episode with,
you've got to remember
these because if you just
upregulate these,
you've got most
of the problems
at least improved.
The first G is glutathione.
And glutathione is the
primary detox antioxidant
in your liver and your brain.
The second one is glucaric acid,
and you take that in something
called calcium D-glucarate.
And this is the secondary
way of getting rid of toxins.
And the third way of
getting rid of toxins
is called conjugation
via glycine.
So what does that mean?
You take glutathione, you
take calcium D-glucarate,
and you take glycine, and you
get rid of most of the toxins
that I just shared with you.
That whole long list, those
3Gs will handle all of them.
Even things like BPA, which is a
major endocrine disruptor, it's
found in women's
sports bras now,
it's in cash register
receipts, it's
in all the plastic
lining on everything.
The only way to get rid of that
is the second G with glucarate.
So you can do it now
because you understand
that these are so important.
I take those every day.
There's also precursors
for glutathione
that may work for you if
you have the right genetics
and you have all the other
cofactors and minerals.
These are things like inositol
cysteine, glutamine or alpha
lipoic acid, which you
probably should take anyway
for energetic reasons
not for detox reasons.
Glutathione is
something that you
want to take most days
but not every single day
so your body doesn't get
used to just always having it
externally.
I take it probably
five days a week.
You can get some glucaric acid
in oranges, apples, broccoli,
but you won't get enough.
I like a gram a day of
calcium D-glucarate.
This is one of those
just unrecognized,
unsung detox molecules
that ought to be there.
One of the other things that
happens when you take calcium
D-glucarate is that
it helps your body get
rid of excess estrogen.
So if you're a guy
and you have high
testosterone because you're
living the right
biohacking lifestyle,
or like me, you supplement
testosterone to keep
your levels where you
want them, testosterone
will turn into estrogen.
And some women have
excess estrogen.
So giving your
liver what it needs
to get rid of
either xenoestrogens
or man-made estrogen, well,
maybe that's a good idea.
That's calcium D-glucarate.
And the other thing that can
make a huge difference for you
is taking more electrolytes.
I talk about minerals a
lot but potassium, sodium,
and magnesium help your liver
detox as well as your kidneys.
I put it in my water almost
all the time or drink mineral
water.
There's another
form of calcium that
is unknown for most people.
It's called calcium AEP.
And it protects your
kidneys from damage
and it helps you to maintain
cellular mineral balance
so I take that from my kidneys.
When I know I've been
exposed to toxins
or I know I'm going
to a restaurant
and the food's a little bit sus
but I want to eat it anyway,
I take activated
charcoal with it.
It works for many toxins,
including mold and some metals.
I also use activated charcoal
before I go into the sauna
so that as my body
starts to dump toxins,
I can catch it with charcoal.
Charcoal is like a sponge that
absorbs toxins in the gut.
That means those toxins
don't hit your liver,
they don't hit your kidneys,
they don't hit your lymph.
You just poop them out
instead of processing them
through the body.
I notice a huge difference
with toxic mold.
And if I'm eating leftovers or
some food that maybe I think
isn't maybe kind of fast
food-ish, huge difference
in how you feel later.
In one study, activated charcoal
increased the lifespan of older
animals by an average of 34%.
You think you want to
take that detox molecule?
I do.
The one thing about charcoal,
take it at least 2 hours away
from your other supplements
because it'll absorb drugs
like pharmaceuticals,
prescription
drugs, over-the-counter things.
It'll absorb some vitamins
and some minerals but not all.
So I just like to take it
a half hour before meal,
then I eat some food,
then I take my vitamins,
I'm good to go.
But otherwise, 2 hours away.
If you know you have mold as
part of your toxin problem,
and many of us do,
I certainly did,
you can also take
something called
zeolite and bentonite clay.
These are both
specific clays that
will electrically
attract mold toxins
so you can get rid of them.
Or you can take a drug
called cholestyramine
which is a prescription thing
that you work with a doctor
for.
Another massive detoxer
is something called
Modified Citrus Pectin or MCP.
That will bind to lead,
cadmium, arsenic, and thallium.
You put a scoop of
it in your smoothie.
It's not that hard to do.
That one is not for
kids or teenagers.
In one study, about 15 grams
of modified citrus pectin
per day for 5 days caused
significant levels of metals
to be passed through urine.
You literally get
it out of your body.
There's also something
called fulvic acid, which
is present in danger coffee and
you can buy it as a supplement
directly.
And it's small enough
to pass into cells
where it can bind to metals
so your body can excrete them.
There's chlorella, which
is a fractured cell wall
algae that can bind to
mercury in your gut.
That's what I eat
when I have sushi so
that I don't lose my balance.
And if you really have
problems with lead,
you go for the big guns.
There's something
called EDTA, which
is a synthetic amino
acid that binds to metals
and it diminishes their
reactivity with the body.
Now, EDTA is something that
you can use for self-treatment.
And to do that, you can take
capsules that are 5% absorbable
or you can actually take
suppositories that work almost
as well as working with a
doctor via intravenous recovery.
I will just warn
you with EDTA, it
will pull out the
good minerals so you
have to put them back in but
you need to know it exists.
If you have calcified arteries,
if you have lots of lead,
lots of mercury,
probably you want
to work with a functional
medicine doctor on that.
And if you're dealing
with emotional toxins,
you might want to pick
up a meditation practice.
On Gaia, there's so
much knowledge here.
Look at the
spirituality sections.
There's even an
episode here where
I talk about ways to get into
spiritual states more quickly.
It's important that
if you're trying
to get rid of metals and
pesticides and all the things
that you know are in
there, if you're holding
on to a lot of chronic
stress, your body
won't let go of those either.
So sometimes the
emotional work has
to happen at the same
time as the physical work,
and this is a reality, and
any good functional medicine
practitioner has noticed this.
The detox protocols
that I like best
include doing maybe
one thing at a time
or stacking things so you
get even greater effect.
So you might take
modified citrus pectin
and you might take
glutathione, because they work
via different pathways.
And there's good
evidence suggesting
that if you exercise
and then hit the sauna,
you'll get even more benefits of
detoxing than either one alone.
So here's what you
might do on a day.
You could take 500
to 1,000 milligrams
of liposomal
glutathione, and you
could take maybe a gram
of vitamin C an hour
before exercising.
Now, keep in mind,
this is for detox
because a lot of vitamin C
can inhibit the muscle you
might build from exercising.
So this is a different protocol.
If you just want to build
muscle, take out the vitamin C.
You also want to take 1 gram
of calcium D-glucarate daily.
And move your body for at
least 20, maybe 30 minutes,
and you can do high intensity
interval training or any
of the other hacks from
the fitness episode
but don't do that
every single day.
Just go for a walk every day.
That's your default.
Take three to four activated
charcoal capsules away
from your other supplements.
If you tend to get constipated,
back off on that number.
And then spend a few
minutes in a sauna.
Studies show 20 minutes
provide benefits.
You might want to go
a little bit longer
but don't go beyond an hour.
And remember, if you're
in the sauna for that
long, lots of water, lots
of electrolytes in the water
because water helps
your kidneys detox.
So here's the deal.
The world is full of toxins.
There is no reason to
be stressed about it.
But there is a reason to say,
I am aware of this toxin,
therefore, I will minimize
my exposure to it.
But it's OK, sometimes
you're going to be exposed,
you will survive
and you will thrive.
And because you will
be exposed sometimes,
then you're going
to do the Triple G
and you're going to do
some of the detox practices
you just learned about.
You don't have to do
all of them, pick some.
And you're going to notice
your skin looks different.
You're going to notice that you
don't get puffy in the morning.
Your joints don't get stiff.
Your back doesn't hurt.
You're happier.
You're more focused.
This is biohacking.
This is why it matters
so much because when
you drop the toxins
you're exposed to,
and you lower the
toxins in your body,
your energy levels go way up.
I'm Dave Asprey, and
this is Biohacking.
[MUSIC PLAYING]